## Translating the commands

Since the command is limited to only 4 directions, we can create a `dict`.

```python
directions = {
            "LEFT": [-1, 0],
            "DOWN": [0, 1],
            "UP": [0, -1],
            "RIGHT": [1, 0]
        }
```


## Creating our grid

The first solution I found is to create a temporary grid, and see the snake's
position in `x` and `y` coordinate after all commands.

Creating our grid:

```python
grid = []
for i in range(n):
    row = []
    for j in range(n*i, n*(i+1)):
        row.append(j)
    grid.append(row)
```

or use list comprehension:

```python
grid = [[j for j in range(i*n, n*(i+1))] for i in range(n)]
```

> [!WARNING]
> Using this approach, it safe to assume that the time and space complexity is $O(n^2)$
> already, since we need to create a grid that has `n * n` size.

Onto the next thing.


## Finding the snake's coordinate

We know that the snake always starts at position `0`, so the coordinate will be
`[0, 0]`.

```python
coord = [0, 0]
```

Then for each command, we translate the command to a vector (direction),
then we add each corresponding axis to the direction's axis:

```python
for command in commands:
    direction = directions[command]
    coord = [coord[0]+direction[0], coord[1]+direction[1]]
```

Finally, we can return the value of the grid in the snake's coordinate:

```python
return grid[coord[1]][coord[0]]
```


## Finding the position without creating grid

We already know that creating the grid makes our code has $O(n^2)$ complexity,
so how we can get the position, without creating our grid?

Given the following example:

If `n = 3`, then the grid will be:

```python
[
    [0, 1, 2],
    [3, 4, 5],
    [6, 7, 8]
]
```

Here's the pattern:

We start at `0`, then if we move `"RIGHT"`, we add `1` to the value. If we were in
value `5` and we move `"LEFT"`, the value will be `4`.

We can conclude that the `"RIGHT"` and `"LEFT"` movement of the snake will increment
and decrement the value by `1`, respectively.

Similarly, if we were at `4` and we move `"DOWN"`, we will add the value with `3`, which
is our `n`. Also, we will substract by `n` if we move `"UP"`.

So to get our position without creating a grid, we can do the following equation:

$$
position(x, y) = x + (y \times n)
$$

And we'll translate to Python:

```python
return coord[0] + (coord[1] * n)
```


## How about without coordinates?

Sure we can do it without coordinates. But first, let us modify our commands first.
We know that moving `"UP"` and `"DOWN"` will respectively add and subtract the 
current position by `n`. So we modify `directions` as so:

```python
directions = {
    "UP": [0, -n],
    "RIGHT": [1, 0],
    "DOWN": [0, n],
    "LEFT": [-1, 0]
}
```

Now instead of initializing our coordinates, we initialize our position.

```python
pos = 0
```

For the loop, now we have `n` in our `directions`, we can update the `pos` with every step:
```python
for command in commands:
    pos += sum(directions[command])
```

and we return `pos` as the result.

❤️
